which, on account of the effect expected from it, is called moral,
the criterion of a moral duty to consider the problem: "If everyone in
  But in fact, whatever men imagine, no moral principle is based on
duty and its application to the moral judgement of his actions. The
purely sensitive, or even moral feeling (from what is subjectively
such a way, however, that a certain moral happiness not resting on
on his happiness, consequently, from a moral principle; on the other
pathological and moral pleasure. The pleasure, namely, which must
be felt is in the moral order. If this distinction is not observed; if
morality.
come, though ultimately in vain, to attack the moral concept of
  Ethics in ancient times signified moral philosophy (philosophia
moral is) generally, which was also called the doctrine of duties.
of moral philosophy, namely, to the doctrine of duties which are not
external one or be self-constraint. The moral imperative, by its
moral law, although they themselves recognize its authority; and
consists.* Now, as man is a free (moral) being, the notion of duty can
  *Man, however, as at the same time a moral being, when he
the opponent of the moral character within us, it is virtue (virtus,
fortitudo moralis). Accordingly, general deontology, in that part
against their influence than by an opposite moral end, which therefore
conception self-constraint according to moral laws.
ends of the pure practical reason. The two parts of moral philosophy
morally forced (by the mere idea of duty), so much the freer he is.
ethics the notion of duty must lead to ends, and must on moral
  To every duty corresponds a right of action (facultas moral is
elective will), but merely that which is formal in the moral
justice in this respect; that it is morally possible to be
but only moral philosophy, the latter being an autonomy of practical
rightly concluded, from the moral categorical imperative- of the power
human morality in its highest stage can yet be nothing more than
long custom acquired by practice of morally good actions. For, if this
(contradictorie oppositum) the negative lack of virtue (moral
destroys all moral philosophy.
the choice of its ends; but the latter we must call the moral
superfluous here, since moral philosophy already by its very notion is
whereas the moral doctrine of ends which treats of duties rests on
power (or natural capacity) and also of one's will (moral disposition)
(as art), but reason, as morally practical, absolutely commands him to
it from duty, for this is internal morally practical perfection.
This is called the moral sense (as it were a special sense, sensus
moralis), because it is a feeling of the effect which the
dispense with judgement of reason; but still it is a moral perfection,
distinction between moral and physical happiness (the former
consisting in satisfaction with one's person and moral behaviour, that
morality of the agent; and happiness is only the means of removing the
hindrances to morality; permitted means, since no one bas a right to
demand from me the sacrifice of my not immoral ends. It is not
morality, to maintain which in its integrity is at once my end and
is not necessarily demerit (demeritum) = - a, but only moral unworth
of moral strength (defectus moralis). (As the word Tugend is derived
namely, a moral pleasure which goes beyond mere satisfaction with
merit, the consciousness of which creates a moral enjoyment in which
unconditional (moral) imperative, may be seen from the following
  (b) Cultivation of Morality in ourselves. The greatest moral
but also the morality, i.e., the mental disposition, with the
purity of his moral purpose and the sincerity of his mind even in
How much of the element of pure morality in their mental disposition
merely by their legality, but also by their morality (mental
  (b) Moral well-being of others (salus moral is) also belongs to
although its origin is moral, is yet in its operation physical, like
limits within which this care for the moral satisfaction of others
inclinations which may come into conflict with the moral purpose;
by others. The moral power of the former is virtue, and the action
the moral imperative, and the supposition of freedom which it
  We may, indeed, say that man is obliged to virtue (as a moral
something that must be acquired by the moral spring (the idea of the
  These are such moral qualities as, when a man does not possess them,
he is not bound to acquire them. They are: the moral feeling,
objective conditions of morality. They are all sensitive and
empirical origin, but can only follow on that of a moral law, as an
of the internal sense) is either a pathological or a moral feeling.
  Now it cannot be a duty to have a moral feeling, or to acquire it;
notion of duty; but every man (as a moral being) has it originally
improper to call this feeling a moral sense; for the word sense
object; whereas the moral feeling (like pleasure and displeasure in
knowledge. No man is wholly destitute of moral feeling, for if he were
totally unsusceptible of this sensation he would be morally dead; and,
to speak in the language of physicians, if the moral vital force could
beings. But we have no special sense for (moral) good and evil any
the moral feeling.
duty to acquire it; but every man, as a moral being, has it originally
to an object, but only to the subject (affecting the moral feeling
  For all moral proofs, being philosophical, can only be drawn by
attribute to man of fulfilling the law; but, conversely, the moral
  Virtue signifies a moral strength of will. But this does not exhaust
law. Virtue then is the moral strength of a man's will in his
obedience to duty; and this is a moral necessitation by his own law
commands, and accompanies its command with a moral constraint (one
moral strength as fortitude (fortitudo moral is) constitutes the
  All the encomiums bestowed on the ideal of humanity in its moral
conceive various moral objects to which the (rational) will is led
for affecting the sensibility, pointing, however, to a moral sense.
Hence it follows that an aesthetic of morals is not a part, but a
emotions that accompany the force of the moral law make the that force
moral aversion in order to gain the precedence from the merely
  This separation on which the subdivision of moral philosophy in
therefore not a moral habit. Virtue therefore cannot be defined as a
This misconception may be avoided by giving the name moral apathy to
their influence on the moral feeling only because the respect for
moral life; on the contrary, the emotion, even when it is excited by
who will admit nothing to be indifferent in respect of morality
inevitably falls; because moral maxims cannot, like technical, be
  Now this original intellectual and (as a conception of duty) moral
all free actions. Now, since such a moral being must at the same
necessarily requires), and since such a moral being possessing power
every moral self-consciousness.
