     1	ethical teaching. To rely for this reason on a certain feeling
     2	dictated by reason, but only adopted instinctively and therefore
     3	reasoning faculty; as the teacher will easily find who tries to
     4	principles of duty, so far as it is derived from pure reason, it was
     5	But in this reasoning there is also a contradiction. For, on the one
     6	reason, which feels its power so strongly in the fields, just as if
     7	theoretical reason and roused by a general call to arms to resist that
     8	practical reason, (i.e., according to humanity in his own person).
     9	conquer them by means of reason, not in the future, but in the
    10	reason which is at the same time conceived as an objectively necessary
    11	may contradict duty, the legislating reason cannot otherwise guard
    12	of practical reason an end to myself, and therefore besides the formal
    13	  For this reason, ethics may also be defined as the system of the
    14	ends of the pure practical reason. The two parts of moral philosophy
    15	ought, has its root in pure reason alone. Indeed, if the maxims were
    16	reason, whereas the former is also an autocracy of it. That is, it
    17	about by technical practical reason, it is neither armed for all
    18	inclinations that weaken reason, which does not prove strength of
    19	practical reason and one, therefore, which combines a concept of
    20	reason might have would be valid only as means to other ends, and a
    21	principles given a priori in pure practical reason.
    22	errors; he is not merely counselled to do this by reason as
    23	(as art), but reason, as morally practical, absolutely commands him to
    24	(like the genius of Socrates) it preceded reason, or even could
    25	dispense with judgement of reason; but still it is a moral perfection,
    26	the continuance of this satisfaction. But for this very reason it is
    27	  But just for or reason, those duties also must be reckoned as of
    28	generally for the promotion of the ends set before us by reason.
    29	obligation. No principle of reason prescribes how far one must go in
    30	therefore, there is no law of reason for actions, but only for the
    31	pure practical reason. Whatever in relation to mankind, to oneself,
    32	and others, can be an end, that is an end for pure practical reason:
    33	be practical reasons. Pure reason, however, cannot command any ends
    34	practical reason (which scorns all such help), consists in this
    35	ought to have, which, therefore, pure practical reason has in
    36	reason in us, and at the same time also by exercise.
    37	the mere conception of reason, that it is excited most strongly, in
    38	by pure practical reason and its law; and it is this that we call
    39	practical reason which, in every case of law, holds before a man his
    40	compared it with my practical (here judicially acting) reason for
    41	flatter ourselves that the multitude of reasons will compensate the
    42	produce certainty, nor even probability. They should advance as reason
    43	and consequence in a series, up to the sufficient reason, and it is
    44	  For the same reason, no vice can be defined as an excess in the
    45	giving reason, inasmuch as this constitutes itself a power executing
    46	legislating reason; and although virtue may now and then be called
    47	praeceps). And reason declares through the notion of virtue that a man
    48	all his powers and inclinations under his rule (that of reason); and
    49	unless reason takes the reins of government into its own hands, the
    50	compelled by his reason to transact it as if at the command of another
    51	or a merely ideal person which reason frames to itself. Such an
